---
date: 2023-06-12T23:41:45Z
---

# 1.227.0

Possibly breaking change:

In this update, `account-map/modules/iam-roles` acquired a provider, making it no longer able to be used with `count`.  If you have code like

```hcl
module "optional_role" {
  count = local.optional_role_enabled ? 1 : 0

  source  = "../account-map/modules/iam-roles"
  stage   = var.optional_role_stage
  context = module.this.context
}
```

You will need to rewrite it, removing the `count` parameter. It will be fine to always instantiate the module. If there are problems with ensuring appropriate settings with the module is disabled, you can always replace them with the component's inputs:

```hcl
module "optional_role" {
  source  = "../account-map/modules/iam-roles"
  stage   = local.optional_role_enabled ? var.optional_role_stage : var.stage
  context = module.this.context
}
```


The update to components 1.227.0 is huge, and you have options.

- Enable, or not, dynamic Terraform IAM roles, which allow you to give some people (and Spacelift) the ability to run Terraform plan in some accounts without allowing apply. Note that these users will still have read/write access to Terraform state, but will not have IAM permissions to make changes in accounts. [terraform_dynamic_role_enabled](https://github.com/cloudposse/terraform-aws-components/blob/1b338fe664e5debc5bbac30cfe42003f7458575a/modules/account-map/variables.tf#L96-L100)
- Update to new `aws-teams` team names. The new names are (except for support) distinct from team-roles, making it easier to keep track. Also, the new managers team can run Terraform for identity and root in most (but not all) cases.
- Update to new `aws-team-roles`, including new permissions. The custom policies that have been removed are replaced in the `aws-team-roles` configuration with AWS managed policy ARNs. This is required to add the `planner` role and support the `terraform plan` restriction.
- Update the `providers.tf for` all components. Or some of them now, some later. Most components do not require updates, but all of them have updates. The new `providers.tf`, when used with dynamic Terraform roles, allows users directly logged into target accounts (rather than having roles in the `identity` account) to use Terraform in that account, and also allows SuperAdmin to run Terraform in more cases (almost everywhere).

**If you do not want any new features**, you only need to update `account-map` to v1.235 or later, to be compatible with future components. Note that when updating `account-map` this way, you should update the code everywhere (all open PRs and branches) before applying the Terraform changes, because the applied changes break the old code.

If you want all the new features, we recommend  updating all of the following to the current release in 1 PR:

- account-map
- aws-teams
- aws-team-roles
- tfstate-backend

<details>
  <summary>Enable `terraform plan` access via dynamic Terraform roles @Nuru (#715)</summary>

### Reviewers, please note:

The PR changes a lot of files. In particular, the `providers.tf` and therefore the `README.md` for nearly every component. Therefore it will likely be easier to review this PR one commit at a time.

`import_role_arn` and `import_profile_name` have been removed as they are no longer needed. Current versions of Terraform (probably beginning with v1.1.0, but maybe as late as 1.3.0, I have not found authoritative information) can read data sources during plan and so no longer need a role to be explicitly specified while importing. Feel free to perform your own tests to make yourself more comfortable that this is correct.

### what

* Updates to allow Terraform to dynamically assume a role based on the user, to allow some users to run `terraform plan` but not `terraform apply`
   * Deploy standard `providers.tf` to all components that need an `aws` provider
   * Move extra provider configurations to separate file, so that `providers.tf` can
     remain consistent/identical among components and thus be easily updated
   * Create `provider-awsutils.mixin.tf` to provide consistent, maintainable implementation
* Make `aws-sso` vendor safe
* Deprecate `sso` module in favor of `aws-saml`


### why

- Allow users to try new code or updated configurations by running `terraform plan` without giving them permission to make changes with Terraform
- Make it easier for people directly logged into target accounts to still run Terraform
- Follow-up to #697, which updated `aws-teams` and `aws-team-roles`, to make `aws-sso` consistent
- Reduce confusion by moving deprecated code to `deprecated/`





</details>