---
date: 2023-06-29T19:39:15Z
---

# 1.238.0

<details>
  <summary>IAM upgrades: SSO Permission Sets as Teams, SourceIdentity support, region independence @Nuru (#738)</summary>

### what

- Enable SSO Permission Sets to function as teams
- Allow SAML sign on via any regional endpoint, not only us-east-1
- Allow use of AWS "Source Identity" for SAML and SSO users (not enabled for OIDC)

### why

- Reduce the friction between SSO permission sets and SAML roles by allowing people to use either interchangeably. (Almost. SSO permission sets do not yet have the same permissions as SAML roles in the `identity` account itself.)
- Enable continued access in the event of a regional outage in us-east-1 as happened recently
- Enable auditing of who is using assumed roles

### References

- [Monitor and control actions taken with assumed roles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_temp_control-access_monitor.html)
- [How to integrate AWS STS SourceIdentity with your identity provider](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/security/how-to-integrate-aws-sts-sourceidentity-with-your-identity-provider/)
- [AWS Sign-In endpoints](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/signin-service.html)
- [Available keys for SAML-based AWS STS federation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_iam-condition-keys.html#condition-keys-saml)

### Upgrade notes

The regional endpoints and Source Identity support are non-controversial and cannot be disabled. They do, however, require running `terraform apply` against `aws-saml`, `aws-teams`, and `aws-team-roles` in all accounts. 

## AWS SSO updates

To enable SSO Permission Sets to function as teams, you need to update `account-map` and `aws-sso`, then apply changes to 
- `tfstate-backend`
- `aws-teams`
- `aws-team-roles`
- `aws-sso`

This is all enabled by default. If you do not want it, you only need to update `account-map`, and add `account-map/modules/roles-to-principles/variables_override.tf` in which you set 
`overridable_team_permission_sets_enabled` to default to `false`

Under the old `iam-primary-roles` component, corresponding permission sets were named `Identity<role>RoleAccess`. Under the current `aws-teams` component, they are named `Identity<role>TeamAccess`. The current `account-map` defaults to the latter convention. To use the earlier convention, add `account-map/modules/roles-to-principles/variables_override.tf` in which you set `overridable_team_permission_set_name_pattern` to default to `"Identity%sRoleAccess"`

There is a chance the resulting trust policies will be too big, especially for `tfstate-backend`. If you get an error like

```
Cannot exceed quota for ACLSizePerRole: 2048
```

You need to request a quota increase (Quota Code L-C07B4B0D), which will be automatically granted, usually in about 5 minutes. The max quota is 4096, but we recommend increasing it to 3072 first, so you retain some breathing room for the future. 


</details>